Palo Alto Cortex XDR apps doc (#2430)
SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation: docs/integrations/saas-cloud/palo-alto-cortex-xdr.md

- **Interactive Dashboards**. Explore interactive dashboards that provide a holistic view of alerts, incidents, and threat intelligence. Visualize data with pre-built charts, graphs, and tables to understand trends, patterns, and anomalies.
- **Incident Management**. Streamline incident management processes by tracking security incidents. Monitor incident status, and collaborate with your security team for effective incident response.

## Log types

This app uses [Palo Alto Cortex XDR](/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/cloud-to-cloud-integration-framework/palo-alto-cortex-xdr-source/) source to collect [alerts](https://docs-cortex.paloaltonetworks.com/r/Cortex-XDR/Cortex-XDR-Prevent-Administrator-Guide/Alerts) and [incidents](https://docs-cortex.paloaltonetworks.com/r/Cortex-XDR/Cortex-XDR-Prevent-Administrator-Guide/Incidents) from Palo Alto Cortex XDR.

## Sample log messages

<details><summary>View Sample Log Message</summary>

```json title="Alert Message"

>  {
>   "action": "DETECTED",
>   "action_pretty": "Detected",
>   "agent_os_sub_type": "Windows 11 [10.0 (Build 22621)]",
>   "agent_os_type": "Windows",
>   "agent_version": "7.9.1.26645",
>   "alert_id": "161",
>   "alert_type": "Unclassified",
>   "bioc_category_enum_key": "IP",
>   "category": "IP",
>   "description": "IOC ( IP = 103.36.10.156 )",
>   "detection_timestamp": 1677153320321,
>   "endpoint_id": "eba0735df9a24a67b95b75ecfdf3c77f",
>   "external_id": "6d6806d1-dbc2-4da0-b3b6-b16d097f20eb",
>   "host_ip": [
>     "192.168.5.5"
>   ],
>   "host_name": "DESKTOP-DLU1NRR",
>   "is_pcap": false,
>   "is_whitelisted": false,
>   "local_insert_ts": 1677153820311,
>   "matching_service_rule_id": "5",
>   "matching_status": "MATCHED",
>   "name": "IOC (103.36.10.156)",
>   "original_tags": [
>     "DS:PANW/XDR Agent"
>   ],
>   "resolution_status": "STATUS_010_NEW",
>   "severity": "critical",
>   "source": "XDR IOC",
>   "starred": false,
>   "tags": [
>     "DS:PANW/XDR Agent"
>   ]
> }

Reviewer: bumped up indentation

```suggestion
{
   "action": "DETECTED",
   "action_pretty": "Detected",
   "agent_os_sub_type": "Windows 11 [10.0 (Build 22621)]",
   "agent_os_type": "Windows",
   "agent_version": "7.9.1.26645",
   "alert_id": "161",
   "alert_type": "Unclassified",
   "bioc_category_enum_key": "IP",
   "category": "IP",
   "description": "IOC ( IP = 103.36.10.156 )",
   "detection_timestamp": 1677153320321,
   "endpoint_id": "eba0735df9a24a67b95b75ecfdf3c77f",
   "external_id": "6d6806d1-dbc2-4da0-b3b6-b16d097f20eb",
   "host_ip": [
      "192.168.5.5"
   ],
   "host_name": "DESKTOP-DLU1NRR",
   "is_pcap": false,
   "is_whitelisted": false,
   "local_insert_ts": 1677153820311,
   "matching_service_rule_id": "5",
   "matching_status": "MATCHED",
   "name": "IOC (103.36.10.156)",
   "original_tags": [
      "DS:PANW/XDR Agent"
   ],
   "resolution_status": "STATUS_010_NEW",
   "severity": "critical",
   "source": "XDR IOC",
   "starred": false,
   "tags": [
      "DS:PANW/XDR Agent"
   ]
}
```

    "TA0002 - Execution",
    "TA0006 - Malfunction Check"
  ],
  "mitre_techniques_ids_and_names": [
    "TA0002 - Execution",
    "TA0006 - Malfunction Check"
  ],
  "alert_categories": [
    "Domain Name",
    "File Name",
    "IP",
    "Malware"
  ],
  "original_tags": [
    "DS:PANW/XDR Agent"
  ],
  "tags": [
    "DS:PANW/XDR Agent"
  ]
}
```

</details>

## Sample Query

<details><summary>View sample queries</summary>

```sql title="Alerts Triggered"
_sourceCategory="palo_alto_cortex_xdr" "alert_id" "is_whitelisted"
| json "alert_id","name","severity","source","host_ip","alert_type","action_pretty","agent_os_type","category","detection_timestamp","is_whitelisted","resolution_status" as alert_id,name,severity,source,host_ip,alert_type,action_pretty,agent_os_type,category,detection_timestamp,is_whitelisted,resolution_status nodrop
| action_pretty as action
| where severity matches "{{severity}}"
| where category matches "{{category}}"
| where source matches "{{source}}"
| where action matches "{{action}}"
| where agent_os_type matches "{{agent_os}}"
| where alert_type matches "{{alert_type}}"
| where is_whitelisted matches "{{is_whitelisted}}"
| count_distinct(alert_id)

> ```

Reviewer: Close gap on line 148, then create 1-line gap between the two snippets

Author: Thanks Kim, I have updated.

---
id: palo-alto-cortex-xdr
title: Palo Alto Cortex XDR
sidebar_label: Palo Alto Cortex XDR
description: The Sumo Logic app for Palo Alto Cortex XDR provides comprehensive visibility and analysis of alerts and incidents to improve overall security posture.
---
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

<img src={useBaseUrl('/img/integrations/security-threat-detection/pan6.png')} alt="icon" width="100"/>

> The Sumo Logic app for Palo Alto Cortex XDR provides comprehensive visibility and analysis of alerts and incidents from the Palo Alto Networks Cortex XDR platform. The Palo Alto Cortex XDR app for Sumo Logic empowers your security teams to proactively monitor and respond to security threats, strengthen incident response processes, improve overall security posture, and protect critical assets from advanced threats and attacks.

Reviewer: I would remove this to consolidate, since you already mentioned "Sumo Logic app for Palo Alto Cortex XDR" in the previous sentence

```suggestion
The Sumo Logic app for Palo Alto Cortex XDR provides comprehensive visibility and analysis of alerts and incidents from the Palo Alto Networks Cortex XDR platform. Our app empowers your security teams to proactively monitor and respond to security threats, strengthen incident response processes, improve overall security posture, and protect critical assets from advanced threats and attacks.
```

Key features of the Palo Alto Networks Cortex XDR app include:
- **Real-Time Monitoring**. Gain real-time visibility into security events and incidents across your organization's infrastructure. Monitor and analyze alerts, threats, and suspicious activities to detect and promptly respond to potential threats.
- **Interactive Dashboards**. Explore interactive dashboards that provide a holistic view of alerts, incidents, and threat intelligence. Visualize data with pre-built charts, graphs, and tables to understand trends, patterns, and anomalies.
- **Incident Management**. Streamline incident management processes by tracking security incidents. Monitor incident status, and collaborate with your security team for effective incident response.

## Log types

This app uses [Palo Alto Cortex XDR](/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/cloud-to-cloud-integration-framework/palo-alto-cortex-xdr-source/) source to collect [alerts](https://docs-cortex.paloaltonetworks.com/r/Cortex-XDR/Cortex-XDR-Prevent-Administrator-Guide/Alerts) and [incidents](https://docs-cortex.paloaltonetworks.com/r/Cortex-XDR/Cortex-XDR-Prevent-Administrator-Guide/Incidents) from Palo Alto Cortex XDR.

> ## Sample log message

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Sample log messages
```

<details><summary>View Sample Log Message</summary>

```json title="Alert Message"
 {
  "action": "DETECTED",
  "action_pretty": "Detected",
  "agent_os_sub_type": "Windows 11 [10.0 (Build 22621)]",
  "agent_os_type": "Windows",
  "agent_version": "7.9.1.26645",
  "alert_id": "161",
  "alert_type": "Unclassified",
  "bioc_category_enum_key": "IP",
  "category": "IP",
  "description": "IOC ( IP = 103.36.10.156 )",
  "detection_timestamp": 1677153320321,
  "endpoint_id": "eba0735df9a24a67b95b75ecfdf3c77f",
  "external_id": "6d6806d1-dbc2-4da0-b3b6-b16d097f20eb",
  "host_ip": [
    "192.168.5.5"
  ],
  "host_name": "DESKTOP-DLU1NRR",
  "is_pcap": false,
  "is_whitelisted": false,
  "local_insert_ts": 1677153820311,
  "matching_service_rule_id": "5",
  "matching_status": "MATCHED",
  "name": "IOC (103.36.10.156)",
  "original_tags": [
    "DS:PANW/XDR Agent"
  ],
  "resolution_status": "STATUS_010_NEW",
  "severity": "critical",
  "source": "XDR IOC",
  "starred": false,
  "tags": [
    "DS:PANW/XDR Agent"
  ]
}

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

  "med_severity_alert_count": 25,
  "high_severity_alert_count": 35,
  "critical_severity_alert_count": 80,
  "user_count": 2,
  "host_count": 1,
  "notes": null,
  "resolve_comment": null,
  "resolved_timestamp": null,
  "manual_severity": null,
  "manual_description": null,
  "xdr_url": "https://sumologic-partner.xdr.us.paloaltonetworks.com/incident-view?caseId=4",
  "starred": false,
  "hosts": [
    "desktop-dlu1nrr:eba0735df9a24a67b95b75ecfdf3c77f"
  ],
  "users": [
    "n/a\\crest_sophos_logs_",
    "desktop-dlu1nrr\\crest_sophos_logs_"
  ],
  "incident_sources": [
    "XDR Agent",
    "XDR IOC"
  ],
  "rule_based_score": null,
  "predicted_score": null,
  "manual_score": null,
  "aggregated_score": null,
  "wildfire_hits": 20,
  "alerts_grouping_status": "Disabled",
  "mitre_tactics_ids_and_names": [
    "TA0002 - Execution",
    "TA0006 - Malfunction Check"
  ],
  "mitre_techniques_ids_and_names": [
    "TA0002 - Execution",
    "TA0006 - Malfunction Check"
  ],
  "alert_categories": [
    "Domain Name",
    "File Name",
    "IP",
    "Malware"
  ],
  "original_tags": [
    "DS:PANW/XDR Agent"
  ],
  "tags": [
    "DS:PANW/XDR Agent"
  ]
}
```

</details>

## Sample Query

> <details><summary>View Sample Queries</summary>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<details><summary>View sample queries</summary>
```

| where category matches "{{category}}"
| where source matches "{{source}}"
| where action matches "{{action}}"
| where agent_os_type matches "{{agent_os}}"
| where alert_type matches "{{alert_type}}"
| where is_whitelisted matches "{{is_whitelisted}}"
| count_distinct(alert_id)

```
```sql title="Incidents Created"
_sourceCategory="palo_alto_cortex_xdr" "incident_id" "incident_name"
| json "incident_id","incident_name","creation_time","modification_time","status","severity","assigned_user_mail","alert_count","high_severity_alert_count","critical_severity_alert_count","user_count","xdr_url","wildfire_hits","alerts_grouping_status","mitre_tactics_ids_and_names","mitre_techniques_ids_and_names" as incident_id,incident_name,creation_time,modification_time,status,severity,assigned_user_mail,alert_count,high_severity_alert_count,critical_severity_alert_count,user_count,xdr_url,wildfire_hits,alerts_grouping_status,mitre_tactics_ids_and_names,mitre_techniques_ids_and_names nodrop
| where alerts_grouping_status matches"{{alerts_grouping_status}}"
| where severity matches "{{severity}}"
| where status matches "{{status}}"
| count_distinct(incident_id)
```
</details>

## Set up collection

> To set up [Cloud to Cloud Integration Palo Alto Cortex XDR Source](/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/cloud-to-cloud-integration-framework/palo-alto-cortex-xdr-source/) for the Palo Alto Cortex XDR app, follow the instructions provided. These instructions will guide you through the process of creating a source using the Palo Alto Cortex XDR Source category, which you will need to use when installing the app. By following these steps, you can ensure that your Palo Alto Cortex XDR app is properly integrated and configured to collect and analyze your Palo Alto Cortex XDR data.

Reviewer: Consolidates paragraph

```suggestion
Prior to installing the Palo Alto Cortex XDR app, you'll first need to set up the source by following the instructions provided at [Cloud-to-Cloud Integration Palo Alto Cortex XDR Source](/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/cloud-to-cloud-integration-framework/palo-alto-cortex-xdr-source). By following these steps, you can ensure that your Palo Alto Cortex XDR app is properly integrated and configured to collect and analyze your Palo Alto Cortex XDR data.
```

## Installing the Palo Alto Cortex XDR app​

> This section has instructions for installing the Palo Alto Cortex XDR app for Sumo Logic and descriptions of each of the dashboards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section has instructions for installing the Sumo Logic app for Palo Alto Cortex XDR and descriptions of each of the dashboards.
```

1. Complete the following fields.
   1. **Data Source**. Select either of these options for the data source:
      * Choose **Source Category** and then choose a source category from the list.
      * Select **Enter a Custom Data Filter** and enter a custom source category that starts with an underscore. For example, `_sourceCategory=MyCategory`.
    2. **Folder Name**. You can retain the existing name, or enter a name of your choice for the app.
    3. Select the **Location in Library** (the default is the **Personal** folder in the library), or click **New Folder** to add a new folder.
1. Click **Next**.

Once an app is installed, it will appear in your **Personal** folder, or other folder that you specified. From here, you can share it with your organization.

Panels will start to fill automatically. It's important to note that each panel slowly fills with data that matches the time range query and has been received since the panel was created. Results will not be available right away, but with a bit of time, you'll see full graphs and maps.

## Viewing Palo Alto Cortex XDR dashboards​

### Alerts Overview

> Palo Alto Cortex XDR - Alerts Overview dashboard provides real-time analysis of the alerts triggered and white-listed. This dashboard offers insights into the alerts based on severity over time, most frequent sources, types of triggered alerts,  geo location of all alerts, and alerts originating from high-risk countries. This dashboard provides information on the most frequent actions taken in response to alerts, the top categories of alerts, and a summary of recent alerts for quick reference.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/saas-cloud/Palo-Alto-Cortex-XDR-Alerts-Overview.png')} alt="Palo-Alto-Cortex-XDR-Alerts-Overview" width="800"/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Palo Alto Cortex XDR - Alerts Overview** dashboard provides real-time analysis of the alerts triggered and white-listed. This dashboard offers insights into the alerts based on severity over time, most frequent sources, types of triggered alerts,  geo location of all alerts, and alerts originating from high-risk countries. This dashboard provides information on the most frequent actions taken in response to alerts, the top categories of alerts, and a summary of recent alerts for quick reference.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/saas-cloud/Palo-Alto-Cortex-XDR-Alerts-Overview.png')} alt="Palo-Alto-Cortex-XDR-Alerts-Overview" width="800"/>
```

### Incidents Overview

> **Palo Alto Cortex XDR - Incidents Overview** dashboard provides the number of incidents created and disabled. This dashboard offers insights into the incidents based on severity over time and incidents by status. This dashboard also highlights the most frequently assigned users to handle incidents, information about the commonly observed MITRE techniques and tactics utilized, and a summary of recent incidents for quick reference.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/saas-cloud/Palo-Alto-Cortex-XDR-Incidents-Overview.png')} alt="Palo-Alto-Cortex-XDR-Incidents-Overview" width="800"/> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Palo Alto Cortex XDR - Incidents Overview** dashboard provides the number of incidents created and disabled. This dashboard offers insights into the incidents based on severity over time and incidents by status. This dashboard also highlights the most frequently assigned users to handle incidents, information about the commonly observed MITRE techniques and tactics utilized, and a summary of recent incidents for quick reference.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/saas-cloud/Palo-Alto-Cortex-XDR-Incidents-Overview.png')} alt="Palo-Alto-Cortex-XDR-Incidents-Overview" width="800"/> 
```
